this video is going to be tricky to make
because we are talking about the
shallowest of the shallow and we are
also talking about the most profound of
the profound in reality in 2016 there's
a distinction between lifestyle veganism
and vegan activism even within this
completely phony and peculiar sphere of
digital veganism as I call it um now
there shouldn't be and I think in some
kind of philosophical or abstract sense
there isn't a difference between
lifestyle veganism and vegan activism
but if you want to know what I'm talking
about you can take it Landsat a YouTube
channel like tests beg a name I didn't
even know until yesterday came up in a
conversation with another vegan there
are vegans actively depicting and
promoting um bikinis and beaches and
bicycles and buffets and plates full of
fruit and showing off a lifestyle of
self-indulgence luxury athleticism
healthy eating but it's what I like to
call a permanent vacation right now for
contrast to that and and look sexuality
is also a huge component of all this
whether it's male virility or female
sexuality it's I don't have to spell it
out for you guys look at any of these
channels it's part of what's being
bought and part of what's being sold the
dream of a second youth for older people
and obviously for young people it's a
component of the transaction now the
contrast that you can take a look at
London vegan actions they also have a
YouTube channel London vegan actions
they're young women of about the same
age I don't know anyone's age exactly in
this comparison London vegan actions
they're filming themselves you know
standing in front of a restaurants
chanting about foie gras trying to get
foie gras taken off the menu they're
doing street activism one of their forms
of activism was sitting in the Sun
way the London subway system and showing
film showing video of slaughterhouse
conditions trying to get strangers
interest in veganism so look you know in
a real sense there is no difference
between lifestyle veganism and vegan
activism like in real life the same
people who are doing these actions who
are attending these protests they
probably they may go on vacation once in
a while to I don't know maybe they never
go on vacation they're not depicting
themselves as being on permanent
vacation they're not showing off what
they eat for breakfast that morning and
they're obviously they're not motivated
by the fantasy that 10,000 people will
watch a video carefully edited together
of what I ate for breakfast this morning
but they still got to eat breakfast and
you know it may be that some of the
people who present the grimy estranja
most political and activist version
themselves so that's what they choose to
broadcast that's what they choose to
present to the world engage the internet
those same people for all I know they go
on vacation in Thailand once in a while
or they have a they have a breakfast
buffet that's even more luxurious than
anything you see on the so-called
lifestyle vegan channels so it's a
distinction that's more apparent but
real but it comes back to our subject
here in a kind of dynamic way the homie
Joe best who has gotten himself into a
lot of trouble in the vegan community
the community that is not a community um
he's put up a series of monologues
basically complaining about how excluded
he feels and that he's now gonna stop
were you even referring to himself as
vegan and talking about the political
implications of this and he's saying
honestly enough how hard it has been for
him to be a guy transitioning from
eating meat to veganism and to be
accepting community of his own in
profession so on now look the problem
has been and this is invisible to Joe
best himself because he's knee-deep in
the game and there's a sexual component
to this Joe best man
you aren't on that subway in London
showing that film of slaughterhouse
conditions you're not at the
slaughterhouse filming either okay
you're not doing legit activism or
political agitation or even public
education
of any kind okay if you were the fact
that you are a fat bald middle-aged man
would not be such an obstacle to you it
really wouldn't I'm probably older than
Joe best I think I don't know his age
either but I mean I'm a middle-aged
intellectual I don't pretend to be
something I'm not I don't pretend to be
tests beg and I don't pretend to hang
with tests beg if I met someone like her
I might have a polite conversation but
someone who's dramatically younger than
me and someone who's involved with you
know trying to capitalize on trying to
commercialize that kind of luxurious
lifestyle that's not someone I'm gonna
have a lot of common ground with and we
all know the story with Joe best it's an
understatement to say you know he was
trying to get in on that lifestyle vegan
world he was trying to you know be a be
a member of himself and he was trying to
get involved with romantically several
women who were playing exactly that game
women who were I mean if I'm gonna be
blunt part of what's going on here is is
what I call the the rise of the freely
clones people who are trying to to clone
trying to imitate the success of freely
and her channel her fame her money and
so on but I noticed you know most of
freelee's imitators they do not keep it
real in the way freely does although
it's not every video like it's not that
big a percentage of what she does freely
has put out really honest talk about her
drug use about her past jobs as a
waitress in a cocktail lounge she's
talked about real life in a in a pretty
gritty and honest way down earth that
you will not find on the channels of
most of our imitators but also look I
mean imitation lightning doesn't strike
it's always going to be different
because it's not the first time it's
always going to be different for you
because you didn't invent it right so
look I mean this is the this is the
brutally honest truth Joe best is
complaining that he's not welcome in
veganism but the reality is he is just
not welcome in the phoniest shallowest
side of lifestyle veganism and of course
he's not that's the side of veganism
we're being beautiful matters were being
young matters being athletic matters and
of course being 100% vegan matters
and his experience would be totally
different and be complaining with
something completely different if he
were involved in I don't know what to
say political vegan veganism real vegan
activism public education any kind of
charity work I mean if this guy were
producing illustrated books to educate
children about vivisection oh he would
have a level of respect from the
community the community doesn't is
completely different from the way he's
regarded because we all know the game
he's playing there in Thailand and I
ain't even hating on the game I'm not
I'm not trying to shame you Joe best I
mean I don't play that game myself but
you know it says old as planet Earth
Earth ain't gonna stop turning around
and you know guys like you ain't gonna
stop doing what they gotta do now I feel
like this video has already gone on to
its limit but the truth is I had a
completely separate issue to raise here
that I think Joe best is oblivious to
all right let's try to tack it on now
you don't know how suffering will change
you and part of being vegan being a
committed ethically motivated vegan
being a hundred percent vegan it
involves some suffering okay Joe best
has this flippant attitude of saying
well he's mostly vegan but sometimes he
goes to the 7-eleven this is in in
Thailand
and you know they don't have the bread
he usually buys so he buys some other
bread and he doesn't read the label and
he doesn't care whether or not it
contains some milk powder or something
like this he eats meat and she's once in
a while out of convenience in this way
it may not be a lot of suffering Joe but
you know what there are people of
principle
who on point of principle will go hungry
rather than eat that bread with the milk
pattern and if you had that experience I
can say you don't know how that
suffering would change you that's one of
the things in life you can never
anticipate you can never see into the
future suffering will change your
character it will change who you are to
the core of your being and now this is
this is not intense suffering it's not I
mean you can go for a day without eating
at all and be okay I've done I did a
bike trip probably over a hundred and
fifteen kilometres I got off the bike in
this small village in Thailand and I
could not eat anything in the whole
village I couldn't even get white rice I
managed to get soy milk done some of the
brands of soy milk in Thailand have have
milk powder so you kind of watch over
that so I mean you know I was completely
burnt out and exhausted and I got I had
like Gatorade and soy milk and no solid
food it's a matter of principle I've
I've probably said this in the channel 4
I've been to business meetings where
there was a fabulous buffet I'm thinking
about in like Hong Kong especially this
also have you in Thailand I went to
lavish buffet for business function and
I didn't eat a goddamn thing
I went hungry and I sat there and the
meeting continues and I have an empty
plate and everyone around me is eating
dead animals because you know even the
rice has little bits of pork in it or
whatever you know everything God now
that I remember that in in Taiwan that
was a huge problem I work inside a
museum
it was quite isolated in Taiwan and
there even the rice had pork fat even
the noodles everything had had meat and
yeah I would I would eat nothing
and sometimes you know that was it like
for the day you would go to these
banquets that were part of the business
meeting you you really didn't have
another choice people can give all kinds
of examples of much more intense
personal suffering in their lives that
come out of being vegan and obviously
this is nothing compared to the
suffering of the animals or what have
you but yeah Joe it is natural people
who have that experience who have that
level of commitment and care people were
willing to go hungry on pointed
principle how are they gonna look at you
and you're presenting yourself not just
as an anonymous schlub but as a
community leader right and you put
yourself in a leadership role and again
there's a sexual component of that we
know why you did that right let's keep
it a hundred all right let's keep it a
hundred percent honest and real here
lifestyle veganism is not open to
everybody vegan activism political
agitation is not open to everybody but
yeah if you're a middle-aged bold
intellectual and you want respect
because that's what he's complaining
about is disrespect you know there are a
lot of different ways for you to earn
respect in this community community that
doesn't even exist but trying to play
games with tests beg that ain't one of
them